Journey

The boy trips as he pulls the bike off the road. He can feel the dirt slide and fall into his shoes as he slides a foot down the hill. He tightens his grip on the bike frame and slows. The car's engine quickly fades and is replaced by the constant sound of crickets.

Jason Black Jason tripped the boy the first day they met. He had scraped his hands catching himself on a concrete wall. He had never stopped picking on him. Earlier this week it was because he had answered a question in class about Germany incorrectly. Jason, who sat behind him, came up behind him and whispered "my family's from Germany you little fag, maybe after I kick your ass after school you'll study more." They had waited for him by the stairway that lead down the hill to the neighborhood he lived in. They chased him down and threw him against a set of lockers. Jason and his friends then threw him into the dumpster behind the school.

Yesterday, after returning from the bathrom Jason whispered in his ear "you go to the bathroom so much you'd think you lived there. Maybe you should!" That afternoon Jason and his friends locked him in the girl's bathroom with the lights out. An hour later the janitor found him and sent him on home.

He climbs back up the hill to the edge of the road. The sun is quickly falling into the ocean, darkening the red-orange sky. Since his brother always left for his school early and the boy always got home late usually the first time he would see his brother would be at sunset, lifting weights in the garage with the door open to let the light in. His brother was very strong, it was one of the reasons he went into the Marines. The boy had never been strong.

Two nights ago three Marines came to their home. He saw them out the window. When the doorbell rang he went to his room and listened. A man spoke and his mother cried. He went to the bed, covered his head and tried to sleep.

Later that night his father came to his room and told him his brother wasn't coming home. The boy went back to his bed.

When he got home yesterday he saw his brother's door was open and a big green box as in the middle of the room. While his mother went shopping he looked through the box. In it were clothes, cds, and books. All were dusty. Hearing his mother returning he grabbed one of the books, closed the box and ran back to his room.

That night he read the thin dogeared book. It was a journal of sorts written by an ancient Roman emperor. He said it was important to only care about things you had control over and to act as though whatever you were doing now was the last thing you would ever do.

The boy continues walking along the road. Periodically a car will come by and when it does he steps off the road, moves his bike to make sure it isn't in the way, and waits for the car to pass. He instinctively avoids dangers. His afterschool actions are almost ritual now:

He sits sideways in the alcove, no part of his body shows in the aisle. He holds his backpack on his chest. He closes his eyes and prays the librarian will not find him and make him leave. He hopes to wait them out. Even when locked, the doors opened from the inside. He hears the shuffling steps and knows he cannot stay.

He shudders as a breeze comes up. He can smell the dampness in the air. He had
no jacket since he expected to be home by now. He hadn't planned on Jason Black having stolen his bike's chain.

The boy and his friends would often spend their Saturdays at the liquor store playing Beat Down 2. It was a video game where two people beat each other up, each character had their own special moves. They would stand around playing, putting their quarters up on the glass to show they were in line. Sometimes Jason Black would show up with his friends. If he ended up playing against Jason he would play badly. He knew he could beat Jason, but never did. He knew it would be just another reason for Jason and his friends to beat him up.

He can just see the lights of the sign for "Oceanview Terraces," the neighborhood he lived in. He touched his face where the punch had landed, and quickly drew his hand back as the sting came. He had decided to give Jason a reason...

"Get out of the way, I'm playing next." The boy looked to his right and saw Jason Black step up to the machine and put his quarter in the slot. "Hey shit head, ready to get your ass handed to you?" He hadn't seen him come in, he must have been too focused on beating his previous opponent. He felt his insides twist. Jason chose the Roman soldier character. The boy thought about what the emperor had said and realized if he might die in ten minutes, he should do his best at everything.

With a spinning body slam the Brazilian wrestler finished off the centurion. A look of shock and then a wave of anger flashed over Jason Black's face. "We'll be waiting for you outside," he said. "How about I just come out now and save everyone some time," said the boy.

He saw the car coming down the road, but this time he kept walking. He wouldn't move off the road. As the car approached the headlights blinded the boy and he closed his eyes, still walking. The he sees the white flashes on the black of his eyelids, just like those he saw when Jason's punch landed. And just like when Jason's punch landed, the boy is smiling.