Every Breath You Take

The man wakes up, turns over, and like most mornings (at least those of the
last twenty-six years) watches for the rise and fall of the white sheets and
listens for the slow inhale and exhale of his wife's unconscious breathing.
This morning the covers are still and the only breath he hears is his own.

Something catches in the man's throat. He feels too hot under the thin sheet.
His eyes never leave the bared shoulder framed by the sheet's edge. He holds
his breath. The beating of his heart echoes in his head.

Time passes. He exhales and takes in a stuttered breath. His arm shakes as he
reaches out to touch her skin.

    “Sleep well my love,” she says. “And you.” He turns off the lamp.

His fingers make contact and he feels the cool flesh. His face twists, his
stomach follows.

    In a bright hospital room, light streams in though a large window onto a
    small bed and the yellowing woman in it. The scents of urine and 
    antibacterial soap hang in the air. Older voices say he should kiss his 
    mother one last time. He turns up the music in his ears and walks out the 
    door.

His body collapses in on itself, his abdominal muscles contract--the
biological imperative of self protection takes over.

    He stares at her across the table after his last bite of eggplant 
    parmesan. She smiles at him when she notices him staring.

When he opens his eyes the room is too bright and blurry. He convulses again,
staccato cries muffled as his face finds the pillow.

    It's Sunday afternoon. He lies on the second-hand sofa reading Chekov and 
    she sits in the armchair flipping through a book of Rembrandt paintings. A 
    lonely stick of patchouli incense burns in a small porcelain vase on the 
    coffee table between them. He looks up and sees her forehead wrinkled in 
    thought. He smiles.

His lungs force him to inhale, drained of oxygen for too long. He quickly
exhales again--voicing warped syllables.

    A late night and they are taking a cab home. Four slices of pizza are 
    getting cold in a paper bag at his feet. His wife peels his hand from the 
    vinyl seat and puts it to her chest, squeezing it against her warm body 
    with both arms.

The shaking slows and he tries to remember her.

    She is sitting in the bed working on her laptop, its fan whirring loudly. 
    He turns turns over trying to fall asleep.

He tries to remember something else.

    She is looking up at him that first night in the bar. There is something
    about the way the grey of her shirt brings out the green in her eyes. He
    shouldn't rush this one.

There are things he needs to do but the bed is where he wants to be. He can’t
touch her, but he can’t leave her. He knows as soon as he gets out of bed he
will start forgetting. The memories he would later go back to over and
over--for that was all he had left of her now--would slowly crystalize. They
would be singular visions made of images alone, distilled further with each
remembrance, with nothing chaining them to the current moment.

The bark of a dog echoes off a nearby building. The man rises and walks to the
phone hanging on the wall with its anachronistic ten foot cord. He calls a
number and talks to some official. He turns and sees his wife's face. She is
still sleeping. He wants to bend down and kiss her, he wants her to wake up
and smile. He turns away, his vision going blurry again. He goes back to his
side of the bed and sits. He closes his eyes trying to forget everything that
has happened since waking.

Time passes and people arrive. The paramedics file in with their equipment. He
sits on the bed facing away as they pick his wife up, placing her on the
gurney. He tries again to remember something else--anything else--about his
life with this woman. He is interrupted, words are exchanged, and papers are
signed.

Later his brother and sister are arrive. They have brought sandwiches, but he
cannot eat. Eventually he gives up trying to remember. His head hurts. He
tries not to leave the bed. She was here just a moment ago. He desperately
needs to pound his head against a wall, but rocks on the bed instead. His
sister holds him.

His brother walks over to the window. He draws open the blinds and opens the
window. He walks over to the other window and does the same. A cool
cross-breeze passes through the room.

The scent of the jasmine plant outside that climbs up the side of the building
fills the air. He remembers the summer day the two of them planted it. She
demanded a trellis because she liked to plan ahead. He smiles. He inhales
deeply letting the memory replay in his mind. He smiles with every breath.