Out of Sight, Out of Mind

Sheila,

I know you are angry and upset, but you need to hear what I have to say:

When we married two years ago I was a prolific writer with three novels and dozens of short stories in print. Since Brandon was born I haven't published a thing. I sit for hours a day staring at the blank pages in my notebook praying for inspiration. The constant interruptions from Brandon crying for food or comfort do little to help. Having to stop what I am doing, get up from the desk, and deal with the needs of the child help even less. I hadn't expected how much I would grow to resent the distractions imposed by fatherhood.

One day a few months ago, I was at home staring at the blank page when Brandon started to cry. I got up from the desk and started toward the nursery, but as soon as I got into the hallway the crying stopped. Annoyed, I went back to my desk to try working again.

After another hour or two had passed I realized I hadn't heard  from Brandon in a while and thought it strange. I went to check on him and found the crib empty. I looked around the room and saw nothing out of the ordinary other than Brandon not being where he should have been.

My heart began to race. It felt too hot in the room. "What would Sheila do if she found out?" I thought to myself. "What would happen if she came home to find Brandon missing and me not knowing where he was? Would she flip out and call the police? Would she suspect me of something horrible?"

Shaking, I went back to my desk and dealt with the situation in the only way I knew how: I wrote. The words started to come and continued to come. A torrent had been unleashed in me and I wrote more in one hour than I had in the previous three months.

The stream of words was full of dark thoughts and fears I had held back for a long time, but the one that kept coming to the surface was this: I had never really wanted a child. This thought had taken hold of me during that first year of our marriage. It was at the heart of my months-long depression.  With medication, constantly telling myself I would enjoy fatherhood when it actually happened, and knowing how happy it would make you I was finally able to move past it. I thought I had made peace with the idea, but I guess I was wrong.

Another hour of writing passed when a cry came from the nursery. I ran back to find Brandon once again in his crib. I took him to the kitchen and fed him. Once he finished I returned him to the crib and myself to the desk. Sadly the flood of words had dried up and would not come again that day.

As the weeks progressed this pattern repeated itself with greater regularity. Brandon would vanish and I would write. I was elated to find these spans of time grow longer and longer, for it meant I was more and more productive.

I never mentioned any of this to you because I didn't want to scare you. He would always reappear and never the worse for wear. For some reason the vanishings would stop in the evenings and weekends so you were never around to see them. That of course changed last week when you stayed home from work and... Well, you saw it for yourself.

You were right to react how you did. You are a mother and were justifiably hysterical seeing your child vanish and then reappear like something out of a bad horror film. In retrospect I can see how you might have thought I was a little too blase about the situation, but as I said at the time, the disappearances didn't seem to have any negative effects on Brandon. I'll admit though, the improvements to my writing output may have clouded my judgement.

The question now is, where do we go from here? I will do whatever I need to make this work. I want to talk about this face to face, so I will send you a video chat request later tonight.  I love you.

Your husband,

David

PS: Say "hi" to Brandon for me.

Sheila had read the email six times now and each time her levels of shock and disgust rose another notch. Who was this man? This certainly wasn't the man she had married. What kind of father doesn't care that their child physically disappears multiple times a day?

She took a few deep breaths and looked over at her son sleeping in the stroller. Having taken the week off and gone to her parents with the child, she kept him near her constantly. Not once had he vanished under her supervision. She felt better just watching him sleep, just knowing he was near.

For the last two days she had spent much of her time online researching divorce procedures and custody rules and was doing so again when the video chat request came up on her screen. She had no interest in ever seeing David's face again, but thought it best to get it over with sooner rather than later.  She clicked the "Accept" button and there was David in his office.

"Thanks for answering. This week has been pretty rough for me and I assume it hasn't been great for you either.  Has your time at your parents' helped you to calm down some? My writing output has been nonexistent, so I assume Brandon hasn't disappeared ag--
